Edge caching and cache-control headers (#64)
AdobeDocs/graphql-mesh-gateway: src/pages/gateway/cache-control-headers.md

---
title: Edge caching
description: Specifies how to use headers to limit and modify the cache for GET requests.
---

# Edge caching

API Mesh for Adobe App Builder supports edge caching for users who provide their own content delivery network (CDN), such as Fastly. Edge caching allows you to improve website load times and reduce consumption costs associated with bandwidth.

## Cache-control headers

> CDN's use cache-control headers to determine how your information is cached.

Author: Removing "CDN" really removes the connection between edge-caching and cache-control.

> CDN's use cache-control headers to determine how your information is cached.

Author: I instead used

`A CDN's cache-control headers determine how queried information is cached.`

Every time you use a browser or a GET request to access a url, the site's response headers typically include a `cache-control` header, which determines how long the site will allow its data to be cached. For example, a website could have the following response header:

```html
cache-control: max-age=0
```

The `max-age=0` cache-control directive means that this site wants to serve [fresh](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Caching#fresh_and_stale_based_on_age) data until `0` seconds after the response is generated, which basically means it never wants to cache data. This could also be achieved with a `no-store` directive.

For more information on specific cache-control directives and how they can be used, see the [Mozilla Developer Network's cache control guide](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cache-Control).

## Using cache-control headers with API Mesh

API mesh users can add cache-control headers to [request headers](#as-request-headers) or to a [mesh configuration file](#in-the-mesh-configuration-file).

<InlineAlert variant="info" slots="text"/>

Currently query-level caching is not supported.

### As request headers

> When making a GET request, you can add cache-control headers to your GraphQL client.

Reviewer: I think of the GraphQL client as a tool such as GraphiQL.  Technically, the cache-control headers are provided from the individual sources that make up the mesh config file.

![headers](../_images/ccheaders.png)

<InlineAlert variant="info" slots="text"/>

> PUT requests are not supported and GET requests are limited to 2,048 characters.

Reviewer 2: Replace PUT with POST. POST and GET are the verbs used to make GraphQL queries.

---
title: Edge caching
description: Specifies how to use headers to limit and modify the cache for GET requests.
---

# Edge caching

> API Mesh for Adobe App Builder supports edge caching for users who provide their own content delivery network (CDN), such as Fastly. Edge caching allows you to improve website load times and reduce consumption costs associated with bandwidth.

Author: @keharper API Mesh isn't always for commerce, so I'm hesitant to user "merchants". agree with the rest.

> API Mesh for Adobe App Builder supports edge caching for users who provide their own content delivery network (CDN), such as Fastly. Edge caching allows you to improve website load times and reduce consumption costs associated with bandwidth.

Reviewer 3: Ah yes, I forgot. Maybe "websites that rely on a content..." instead of "merchants who provide their own content..."

### As request headers

When making a GET request, you can receive cache-control headers from your sources, by adding the following `cache-control` section to your `operationHeaders` for each source. When cache-control values are returned, only the [most restrictive values](#how-conflicting-header-values-are-resolved) are returned.

```json
{
  "meshConfig": {
    "sources": [
      {
        "name": "venia",
        "handler": {
          "graphql": {
            "endpoint": "https://venia.magento.com/graphql",
            "operationHeaders:" {
              "cache-control": "{context.headers['cache-control]}"
            }
          }
        },
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

<InlineAlert variant="info" slots="text"/>

POST requests are not supported and GET requests are limited to 2,048 characters.

#### How conflicting header values are resolved

When cache-control header values from multiple sources conflict, API Mesh will select the lowest or most restrictive value. The following section explains which values are returned when [cache-control directives](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cache-Control) conflict.

> If your source's cache-control headers contain the `no-store` directive, then `no-store` is the only returned cache-control header, because it supersedes all other directives.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `no-store` directive supersedes all other directives. If your source's cache-control headers contain this directive, then the mesh does not return other headers.
```

> If your source's cache-control headers contain conflicting values for the following directives, the lowest value is selected:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If your source's cache-control headers contain conflicting values for the following directives, the mesh selects the lowest value:
```

- `min-fresh`

- `max-age`

- `max-stale`

- `s-maxage`

- `stale-if-error`

- `stale-while-revalidate`

> If your source's cache-control headers contain any of the following directives, the directive is added to the `cache-control` response.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If your source's cache-control headers contain any of the following directives, the mesh adds the directive to the `cache-control` response.
```

- `public`

- `private`

- `immutable`

- `no-cache`

- `no-transform`

- `must-revalidate`

- `proxy-revalidate`

- `must-understand`

**Examples**

The following example scenarios indicate the resulting `Response header` from two conflicting sources:

Example 1

> - Source 1

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Source 1 response headers
```

>   - response headers - max-age=3600, stale-while-revalidate=60, stale-if-error=3600

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - max-age=3600, stale-while-revalidate=60, stale-if-error=3600
```
Maybe display the headers as an unordered list

> - Source 2

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Source 2 response headers
```

>   - response headers - max-age:600, stale-if-error=60

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - max-age:600, stale-if-error=60
```

> - Combined HTTP response

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Combined HTTP response header
```

>   - response header - max-age=600, stale-while-revalidate=60, stale-if-error=60

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - max-age=600, stale-while-revalidate=60, stale-if-error=60
```

Example 2

> - Source 1

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Source 1 response headers
```

>   - response headers - max-age=3600, stale-while-revalidate=60, stale-if-error=3600

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - max-age=3600, stale-while-revalidate=60, stale-if-error=3600
```

> - Source 2

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Source 2 response header
```

>   - response header - no-store

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - no-store
```

> - Combined HTTP response

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Combined HTTP response header
```

>   - response header - no-store

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - no-store
```
